---
title: Minutes for AGM held Tuesday 5 December 2023
type: minutes
special_meeting: AGM
date: 2023-12-05
---

*Held in Ayton Community Hall at 7pm.*

## Present

* Alan McFadzean
* Alison Currie
* Amanda Wright
* Christopher Norris
* Cllr James Anderson (SBC)
* Darren Hall
* Margaret Carey
* Paul Ingram
* Peter Hemingway
* Rachel Hendry
* Sarah Woodbury
* Toby Foster
* Trevor Smith

## Apologies for Absence

* Cllr Aileen Orr (SBC)
* Cllr Carol Hamilton (SBC)

## Minutes

Cllr Anderson took the chair and opened the meeting by welcoming the new council which had been successfully formed on the third attempt. As this was a new council, members were invited to introduce themselves and experience brought to the role.

Details of work carried out by the previous council were handed over to the group by Graham Dolan, former Secretary of the Community Council to be considered at future meetings.

## Election of Office Bearers

*Councillor Anderson remained in the Chair.*

**Chair -- Sarah Woodbury.** Proposed by Darren Hall; seconded by Margaret Carey.

*Sarah Woodbury was then invited to take the chair and Cllr Anderson wished her well and departed the meeting.*

**Vice-Chair -- Alan McFadzean.** Proposed by Chris Norris; seconded by Amanda Wright.

**Treasurer -- Paul Ingram.** Proposed by Margaret Carey; seconded by Trevor Smith.

**Secretary -- Trevor Smith.** Proposed by Peter Hemingway; seconded by Alan McFadzean.

## Other Items that the Chair decides are Urgent

SW Suggested the setting up of a Community Council generic email and offered to carry out this task. All agreed this was a sensible idea and agreed to.

Discussion was had regarding the condition of the local play park and Community Council was advised that Â£25,000 had been set aside following a recent housing development and was ring fenced for improvements to the current park. It was agreed that this sum would not cover the cost of upgrades required and it was agreed that Gillian Jardine from SBC would be contacted regarding available Grants to carry out these improvements. It was also agreed that we would look at the prospect of accessing funding from local wind farms and Trevor Smith explained that John Slater, a form Community Council Chair had previously been successful in securing funding and Trevor would speak to him to see what processes we would need to go through. Peter Hemingway also suggested that the Local Place Plan might be of interest for funding of the park project as well as other areas of development around the village. It was agreed that this would be looked at along with support on offer from the Local Area Partnership and Sarah Woodbury confirmed she would speak to Cllr James Anderson about this further.

We were advised that the police no longer routinely attend Community Council however a monthly report is usually received from our local Community Police Officer, Chris McCloud.

Rachel Hendry raised the issue of gritting and advised Community Council that the new development of houses off Summerhill Park had been refused a grit bin. It was suggested that the local resilience group had previously carried out this work and Peter Hemingway agreed to speak to Catherine Chisholm (Resilience Group Chair) and seek advice on this. Sarah Woodbury also confirmed she would Email Cllr James Anderson about this issue.

## Date of Next Meeting

As the first Tuesday of January is the 2nd and a Public Holiday, it was suggested that we move the meeting to Wednesday 3rd January, subject to the Community Hall being Available.

*The Meeting closed at 8.06 pm.*
