---
title: Minutes for meeting held Tuesday 6th May 2024
type: minutes
special_meeting:
date: 2024-05-06
---

*Held in Ayton Community Hall at 7:00pm.*

## Present

* Sarah Woodbury — *Chair*
* Alan McFadzean — *Vice-Chair*
* Paul Ingram — *Treasurer*
* Margaret Carey
* Alison Curry
* Toby Foster
* Amanda Wright
* Rachel Hendry

## Apologies for Absence

* Trevor Smith — *Secretary*
* Darren Hall
* Cllr James Anderson
* Cllr Carol Hamilton

## Resignations

* Peter Hemmingway
* Christopher Norris

*These resignations leave two places available on the council. Anyone interested should approach the council. Ratification is a relatively simple process assuming all agree.*

---

## Defibrillator

Maintenance officer required. One located at the village hall. One located at the bowling club, currently both are in date till the 11th of Jan. **TF** volunteered to take on. **SW** will check if training is required first.

## Paths Maintenance Fund

**SW** advised that there is a grant available to maintain paths. £600.00 she has applied and we have until December to decide how it will be used.

## Peelwalls to Beanburn path

Peelwalls Meadows community are looking for landowner to apply for grants for paths and or a bridge to Beanburn via (Bleachfield Farm) possibly Ayton Castle Estates. **AC** to confirm.

## Portrait of the King

**SW** is ready to move it to the village hall or the school if either want it.

## Welltower sewage issue

Has been dealt with.

## Battery storage near Eccles, Leitholm & Birgham

Eccles, Leithholm & Birgham Community Council are looking to fight nearby large scale grid battery storage. **SW** will reply that we are aware, that we generally support the infrastructure required for a sustainable greener grid, and  as we are not near a major power hub we will decline to provide assistance at present.

## Banking hub, access to cash

**MC** is investigating the rules on access to cash. It is based on population. She has discovered that Kirkcudbright,  which has a smaller population than Eyemouth, has been deemed worthy of being a banking hub. **MC** will continue to chase.

## Community Plan

**AM** will follow up with **PH** and see what ground was made, and will bring community map’s for discussion at next Council meeting to discuss what areas we would support for future developments. A place plan must be established within the next two years for the following 10 years.

## Regular litter  Picks

**AC** questioned if we were covered by council insurance while performing litter picks. We are covered, so the go ahead is approved. Picks will run once per month.

Dates:

* Sat 25th May 10:00am
* Tue 25th June 10:00am
* Sat 20th July 10:00am
* Tue 20th August 10:00am 
* Sat 21st September 10:00am

Meet at the church gates; vests + bags + pickers all provided.

## Treasurer’s report

**PI**: no change. Question: are accounts required for when council didn’t exist? **SW** will clarify with Clair.
Council will be due £693.00 once this is resolved.

## Pingo review

**JA** advises that the Pingo app is being reviewed. The number of buses will be reduced, but will be supported at peek times. The app is being reviewed in favour of the possibly more helpful call centre.

## Speeding in the village

The question has been raised about cars coming from Eyemouth entering the village down the hill. Possibly raise issue when police visit the council.

## Community websites

**TF** advises all community websites are up and running ([Ayton](https://ayton-village.org), [Hall](https://hall.ayton-village.org), [Council](https://council.ayton-village.org)). There is availability to host other local organisation's websites.

## Road marking

**AC** requests clarification on the road Resurfacing and markings entering the village from the A1 south.

## SBC Funding

**TF** has found that SBC has allocated £60,000.00 to upgrade Ayton Community Park in the year 26-27 (item 15 Appendix A). **JA** to follow up on this question. Can we apply funding we have already raised? And can we be party to plans?

## Next meeting

The Next Ayton Community Council meeting will take place on 4 June 2024.
