---
title: Minutes for meeting held Tuesday 7th October 2024
type: minutes
special_meeting:
date: 2024-10-07
---

*Held in Ayton Community Hall at 7:00pm.*

## Present

* Alan McFadzean — *Chair*
* Trevor Smith — *Secretary*
* Alison Currie
* Amanda Wright
* Darren Hall
* PC Kris MacLeod
* Ms I Kelly (Christmas Lights Group)
* Mr R Boyd (Local Resident)
* Ms E Sanderson (Local Resident)

## Apologies for Absence

* Paul Ingram — *Treasurer*
* Toby Foster
* Cllr J Anderson
* Cllr C Hamilton
* Cllr A Orr

---

The minutes of the previous meeting held on Tuesday 5th September 2024 were
approved. Proposed by DH and Seconded by AW as a true and accurate reflection of
events.

## Christmas Market

Ms Isobelle Kelly attended the meeting this evening on behalf of the Christmas
Lights Group to listen to plans for a Christmas Market in the village which it
was proposed would take place on 1st December, the same day as the switch on
of the lights. She advised the Community Council that the group did not have
an issue with a market taking place however consideration should be given to
parking and the space needed in the Crofts Car Park for Norham Brass Band to set
up and entertain residents. Emily Sanderson had volunteered to offer support
to AM in the organising of the market and after discussion about having to
potentially close roads and the risks around not doing so it was agreed that we
would proceed with a market, subject to sufficient interest from stall holders
and this would be done on the Village Green area, by the School and Bowling
Club. It was also agreed to approach the bowling club to see if it would be
possible to use their facilities for the use of toilets as well as refreshments
and a wider space in the event of bad weather. Emily reported that she already
had a number of interested parties who were looking to have stalls including a
food vendor. It was agreed to look for around 20 stall holders who would pay a
small fee and any profits from the event could be split between the Community
Council and the Christmas Lights Group. The Market will run between 11am and
4pm, finishing in time for the switch on of the lights on the High Street.

## Vehicles Driving at Excessive Speed

PC Kris MacLeod, Berwickshire Community Beat Officer attended the meeting
to discuss the issues raised at the last meeting around excess speeding in
the village. He reported that, while speeding is a common occurrence, he was
not aware of any specific or significant issues in the area. He has listened
to members concerns, specifically regarding driving on the Road between the
Church and Hill Burn House, The High Street and the Beanburn as well as cars
approaching Old Town from Eyemouth. He reported that there were a number of
measures that could be put in place but also reported that resources are
extremely stretched in the current climate. He has recommended that both members
of the Community Council and Members of the Wider Public report anything of
concern. He talked about the positive effect that Junior Road Safety Officers
(JRSO) who are pupils from the local Primary School can have on slowing drivers
down and he agreed to explore this further with the school. He also reported on
the possibility of a Traffic Section being added to Duns Police Station which
will give additional resource and presence in the area and he promised to keep
us updated on this.

In addition to Speeding, he also advised that there was no crime of note in
the village in the last month although they had been 2 isolated incidents to
premises close to the village which were specific and targeted, and he did not
think a wider risk was posed. He asked member to encourage residents to go on
Police Scotland’s website and complete the “Your Policing Survey” which is
currently active and will help shape the future of policing in the area.

## MMWR

The police report for the last month was circulated to members and there were no
matters arising from either report.

## Cllr J Anderson Report

Cllr Anderson was unable to attend due to prior commitments and no report was
submitted.

## Berwickshire Area Partnership

The most recent meeting had taken place on 5th September and AM had attended on
behalf of the Community Council. He reported that funding for play equipment
by the school had been approved at the area partnership meeting and he had
acknowledged our gratitude and thanks. In addition to this he was made aware of
Training for Mental Health First Aid that would be made available to anyone who
was interested in completing this training.

## Rotary Cycling Event

On Sunday 29th September a cycling event organised by Eyemouth Rotary Club had
taken place. This passed off very successfully without any incidents.

## Clock Tower Flag

DH advised that he had followed up on the enquiry at the previous meeting from
a member of the public and a site inspection had taken place by Berwickshire
Housing on 24th September. DH reported that there seems to be some confusion
over who is responsible for the repairs and we have made it very clear to
Berwickshire Housing that they have always maintained the flag pole and that the
Community Council have supplied the flags. Discussions are ongoing and DH would
provide further updates as they became available.

## Treasurer’s report

PI was not present at this evening’s meeting but had reported that our annual
grant of £630 has now been paid.

Project Account Balance stands at £903.28  
Treasurer’s Account Balance stands at £963.28

## AOB

A member of the public had approached several members of the community Council
about a private residence on the High Street, whose garden had become overgrown
and was now making use of one of the bus stops more difficult. It was agreed
that TS would approach the resident informally asking them to take action to
rectify this.

TF reported that a PHD Student would be visiting the village on Wednesday
9th October, and he would appreciate people’s support to help him with his
research on the subject of people integrating into village communities. He is
hoping to interview up to 40 people and is happy to meet with people who are
interested. He had been invited to the coffee morning and was hoping to build on
this with more meetings where possible. Please email <J.Chen115@newcastle.ac.uk>
if you are interested.

## Next Meeting

The next Ayton Community Council meeting will take place on 12 November 2024.
