---
title: Minutes for meeting held Tuesday 12th November 2024
type: minutes
special_meeting:
date: 2024-11-12
---

*Held in Ayton Community Hall at 7:00pm.*

## Present

* Trevor Smith — *Secretary*
* Paul Ingram — *Treasurer*
* Toby Foster
* Darren Hall
* Amanda Wright
* Emily Sanderson (Local Resident)

## Apologies for Absence

* Alan McFadzean — *Chair*
* Alison Currie
* Cllr J Anderson
* Cllr C Hamilton
* Cllr A Orr

---

The minutes of the previous meeting held on Tuesday 7th October 2024 were
approved. Proposed by DH and Seconded by AW as a true and accurate reflection of
events.

## Christmas Market

Emily Sanderson attended the meeting and gave an update on the progress
being made for the Christmas Market. She advised that there would be a
number of indoor stalls which will be housed in the bowling club and consist
of a Santa’s grotto, Berwickshire Swap, face painting and a family
photographer. Outside there would be 16 stalls selling a variety of merchandise
as well as 2 food vendors and 2 fair ground type rides. She was also looking at
the possibility of having some live music but this was yet to be confirmed.

It was agreed that all children would receive a gift from Santa and the council
acknowledged the generous support of Local Businesses Ayton Mini Market and Hair
by Louise who have agreed to cover the cost of this. In addition to this support
Amanda Wright had agreed to support Santa in his duties on the Day. The Council
placed on record their grateful thanks to Santa and his Elves. In preparation
for this it was also agreed that TS would contact Eyemouth Rotary about the
possible use of their mobile Grotto and AC would be asked if she could provide
support with decoration of the area housing Santa.

## MMWR

The police report was not received ahead of the meeting and TS agreed to chase
this and circulate to members when received.

## Cllr J Anderson Report

Cllr Anderson was unable to attend due to prior commitments and no report was
submitted.

## Clock Tower Flag

DH advised that he had spoken to Berwickshire Housing who had confirmed remedial
work had been completed on the clock tower but a further official was required
to check the flag pole itself due to movement within the roof. Berwickshire
Housing Association have agreed to chase this and will update DH in due course
following a further site visit.

## Treasurer's report

PI informed the CC that the council had purchased a poppy wreath which was
laid by AM at Sunday's remembrance event at Ayton Church. The cost of this was
£39.60.

Project Account balance stands at £909.96  
Treasurer’s Account balance stands at £905.21

## AOB

Following on from last month when a member of the public had approached several
members of the community council about a private residence on the High Street,
whose garden had become overgrown and was now making use of one of the bus
stops more difficult. It was reported that TS had been unable to speak to the
resident directly despite several attempts. It was agreed that we would speak
to our local councillors from SBC to check on what obligations the resident has
in relation to tidying up their garden and if any action can be taken by the
community council.

TF reported that the defibrillator outside of the community hall would require
new pads by the end of January 2025 and a new battery by the end of November
2025. TS agreed to look into this and report back to the next meeting.

PI advised the meeting that when ordering our poppy wreath, he was unable to
find an official logo for the CC or the village. TS stated that he thought we
did have one and would contact the former chair who may be able to help with
this.

TS reported that the council will have been in operation for 1 year by the
date of the next meeting and that we should look to be holding our AGM. It was
agreed that we would look at this in January to allow festive events to be
organised and reported on. It was also agreed that with 7 members on the CC now
we should be actively looking to recruit new members to fill vacancies created
by resignations over the last year.

## Next Meeting

The next Ayton Community Council Meeting will take place on 10th December 2024.
