---
title: Minutes for meeting held Tuesday 10th December 2024
type: minutes
special_meeting:
date: 2024-12-10
---

*Held in Ayton Community Hall at 7:00pm.*

## Present

* Alan McFadzean — *Chair*
* Trevor Smith — *Secretary*
* Paul Ingram — *Treasurer*
* Amanda Wright
* Toby Foster
* Darren Hall
* Alison Currie

## Apologies for Absence

* Cllr J Anderson
* Cllr C Hamilton
* Cllr A Orr

---

Minutes of the meeting held 12th November: DH proposed, and AW seconded, and minutes
were unanimously approved.

## Christmas Market

A report was provided to the Council by Emily Sanderson who had led on the
recent Christmas Market. It was reported that the event had been a great success
and was enjoyed by many people from the village and further afield. While 6
stalls had dropped out all others had attended and this raised £125. A
donation was suggested for the Bowling Club as way of thank you for using their
premises and £20 was agreed and TS was given the money to pass on to the club.
This left a surplus of £105 for future use by the CC.

Santa’s Grotto was very popular with all children visiting Santa receiving
gifts kindly sponsored by local businesses Ayton Mini Market and Hair by Louise,
thanks were noted to both of these businesses. Thanks, was also noted to Santa
for taking time out of his busy schedule, especially at this time of year and
also to his little helper. Notable thanks were also offered to Chris Norris and
Amanda Wright for supporting Santa and his helper in their visit.

A bucket collection was organised with proceeds being donated to the Ayton
Christmas Lights Group and it was reported that over £200 was raised for them
and was gratefully received.

The Community Council would like to Thank all of those involved in making
this event such a great success and special mention was pointed out to Emily
Sanderson for her first class organisation of the event.

Following the success of the Christmas Market, it was proposed that we consider
a further event in the summer. Suggestions were offered for a Beer/Cider
Festival and a Community Picnic. The CC agreed that both were good ideas and
would be explored further in the New Year.

## MMWR

The police report was not received ahead of the meeting and TS agreed to chase
this and circulate to members when received.

## Cllr J Anderson Report

Cllr Anderson was unable to attend due to prior commitments, a report was
submitted however some technical problems prevented us from opening the file. TS
will ask Cllr Anderson to recirculate his report when these problems have been
resolved.

## Ayton Primary School Volunteer Request

TF reported that the Primary School would be grateful for our support in
recruiting new volunteers to support their breakfast club which is an important
club, allowing parents to drop their children at School at 8am, ensuring that
they have a breakfast and often allowing parents extra time to get to work. It
was agreed that we would promote this through our own networks and social media.

In addition to this TS was able to talk about funding that may be available
through SBC and their employability team, which he leads. Details of the PESF
programme were discussed and it was agreed this would be fed back to the head
teacher for her consideration and TS would make himself available should she
wish to meet to discuss this further.

## Clock Tower Flag

DH advised that he had again spoken to Berwickshire Housing who had confirmed
remedial work had been completed on the clock tower but a further official was
required to check the flag pole itself due to movement within the roof. It had
been confirmed that Michael Aitchinson was the appointed official in the absence
of Davy Scott and this inspection would take place imminently. Berwickshire
housing have agreed they will update DH in due course following the inspection.

## Treasurer's report

PI informed the CC that the council had purchased a poppy wreath which was
laid by AM at Sunday's remembrance event at Ayton Church. The cost of this was
£39.60.

Project Account Balance stands at £909.96  
Treasurer's Account Balance stands at £905.21

## AOB

Litter on the A1: AC reported that litter on the A1 continues to be a serious
problem, especially in the area between Eyemouth and Ayton. She proposed that we
write to the Chief Exec’s of SBC and Bear Scotland as well as enlisting the
support of Local Councillors, MSP’s and Our MP in this matter. It was agreed
that we would take this course of action.

## Next Meeting

The next Ayton Community Council meeting will take place on 7 January 2025,
along with the AGM.
