---
title: Minutes for meeting held Tuesday 2 September 2025
type: minutes
special_meeting:
date: 2025-09-02
---

_Held in Ayton Community Hall at 7:00pm._

## Present

- Trevor Smith — *Secretary*
- Paul Ingram — *Treasurer*
- Paul Cliffe
- Toby Foster
- Amanda Wright
- Alison Currie
- Cllr C Hamilton

_TS chaired meeting_

## Apologies for Absence

- Alan McFadzean — _Chair_
- Darren Hall
- Emily Sanderson
- Cllr J Anderson
- Cllr A Orr

Minutes of the Meeting 5th August 2025: AW proposed, and PI Seconded, and
minutes were unanimously approved.

## Ayton Show

Having agreed to support the Ayton Gardening society with their annual show it
was agreed that everything that had been planned was now in order. Beer has been
ordered, 3 kegs in total, 2 through Cockburnspath Community Shop and 1 through
the Ship Inn, Eyemouth. Ayton Bowling club would pay £300 to PC for 2 kegs from
Cockburnspath and £105 to Born in the Borders Brewery for the Keg from the Ship
Inn. 50% of the profit from these kegs on the night would come back to ACC and
50% would be paid to Ayton and District Bowling Club.

TS and his wife Louise Smith would run the bar which would be open from 4pm on
Saturday 6th September with support from other CC members who would be present
on the day.

PI had booked 4 bands at the cost of up to £1000 paid for from CC funds in
support of the Ayton Show and would be on hand to support them throughout the
event.

PC had made arrangements for U’ve Pulled to provide catering on the evening.

Promotion had been widely shared through social media and our website supported
by TS and TF. Many members of the community had also shared details across their
own networks and it was agreed this looked to be very successful and it was
expected to be a very busy evening.

AW wished for it to be noted that there was disappointment that less was
available in the way of children’s activities. It was agreed this was due to
lack of communication between the Village Show committee and the CC. AM, PI
and TS had all separately had conversations with Caroline Laithe, Chair of the
committee and everyone agreed this was disappointing and due to SBC not being
informed of plans. It was agreed that in future and member of the CC would join
the show committee.

## Community Council Consultation

A Place Plan questionnaire was now in place and had been approved by members
of the CC. It was agreed that the Ayton Show would be a good place to launch
the consultation. As previously agreed, an online version has been created and
this will be accessed by a web link and QR code which TF has produced and will
be shared at the show, however it was recognised that a physical copy of the
forms would be more suitable for some residents and further quotes should be
sought before being printed and distributed and collected with an end of October
deadline set for completion.

## MMWR

Last month’s report was circulated to members with nothing of relevance to
Ayton.

## Road Closures

No Further road closures have been advised.

## Treasurer’s Report

Project Account Balance stands at £918.69  
Treasures Account Balance stands at £629.71

PI advised that in order to receive our next support grant, all members of the
CC need to agree the Code of Conduct and must sign this. We also need to supply
minutes of a meeting where the CC unanimously agreed to the Code of Conduct. A
vote was taken and everyone present unanimously agreed to accept the code of
conduct.

PI Advised that a fund was set up at the end of WW I called the Cow Club, the
aim was that all villages could buy a Cow to support local communities during
these difficult times, allowing communities to start rebuilding after these
events. The money allocated to Ayton was never used and after not being actioned
for over 107 years, the funds have been given back to the village which are
£200 and it was agreed they would be ring fenced for the purchase of a new
defibrillator.

## Berwickshire Area Forum

Cllr CH advised that this had now been cancelled. SBC were looking at what
replaces this function and would advise of future plans when they are put
forward and our comments on plans would be sought.

## Clock Tower Flag

It was reported that the flag pole on top of the clock tower had been repaired
and we could now supply a flag. After discussions it was agreed that a Saltire
should be supplied and raised.

## Planning

TS commented that we were not being made aware of planning applications from the
village, allowing CC comments to be made. He had looked at the planning portal
and there was only 1 application for farm out building in the last few months.
Cllr CH stated that Claire Malster was the officer responsible for advising CC
of future applications and she would advise her of the current contacts on CC so
they could be passed on.

## AOB

It was agreed that we should use the next meeting on 7th October to discuss
plans for the Village Christmas event.

## Next Meeting

The Next Ayton Community Council meeting will take place on 7th October 2025 at
7pm in the Community Hall.
