---
title: Minutes for meeting held Tuesday 4th March 2025
type: minutes
special_meeting:
date: 2025-03-04
---

_Held in Ayton Community Hall at 7:00pm._

## Present

- Alan McFadzean — _Chair_
- Trevor Smith — *Secretary*
- Paul Ingram — *Treasurer*
- Amanda Wright
- Darren Hall
- Toby Foster
- Cllr C Hamilton
- Cllr J Anderson

## Apologies for Absence

- Alison Currie
- Emily Sanderson
- Cllr A Orr

---

Minutes of the meeting 5th February: DH proposed, and AM seconded, and minutes were unanimously approved.

## Public Forum

1 Member of the public was present at this evening’s meeting seeking any
update on from the previous meeting regarding the situation at the Hemelvaart
Bier Café. TS advised the meeting that he had written to the owners of the
property and had not had any reply. He assured the meeting that if any reply was
forthcoming he would circulate details to members and to Mr Cliffe.

## MMWR

The police report had been received and circulated ahead of the meeting.
There were no points on note for Ayton and no one wished to comment on any items
noted in the report.

## Clock Tower Flag

DH advised the meeting that works were on going on the clock tower for the next
6 weeks where further investigations will be completed and an update provided by
BHA in due course.

## Treasurer’s report

Project Account Balance stands at £913.13  
Treasurer’s Account Balance stands at £1013.66

## AOB

### Defibrillator

TF advised that the pads required for the defibrillator now needed to be
replaced along with the battery. He has looked into this along with PI and it
was reported that the current defibrillator was discontinued in 2009. It was
still possible to buy a compatible battery although this was not made by the
manufacturers of our device. The cost of this would be £200. The pads have
been replaced already but it was agreed that we would start looking at options
for replacing our current defibrillator as it was coming towards the end of
its recommended life. A quote to replace it was £1400 and TF advised that he
had already taken the decision to apply for funding from BHF towards this cost
as the application process was about to end. All agreed this was a good course
of action and he was thanked for this. There was another option of a device
which would buy back our old device and replace it for £900 plus VAT. It was
agreed to defer this decision until advice could be sought from Leanne Gillie
a Community First Responder with experience of this and we would also contact
Logan Ingils for advice on funding.

### Community Consultation

AM agreed to chase former chair and member Sarah Woodbury to see what progress
was made on this and report back to the next meeting.

## Community Summer Event

AM advised he was keen to start planning our summer event, following the success
of our Christmas event. It was agreed to look at holding a Beer and Cider
festival that could take place at the end of June with a range of venues being
used as well as the possibility of a marque.

## Electric Charging Points

DH raised the issue of public charging points for electric vehicles. He noted
that we had no points in the village and was keen to hear from SBC Councillors
regarding council policy for installing these. Cllr JA and Cllr CH both advised
that it was not council policy to install such chargers and instead encouraged
private companies to do this. Discussions were had on the route to net zero with
2030 being less than 5 years away and it was the councillors view that policy
will be changed due to lack of infrastructure. DH pointed out that over 25% of
all new car sales were now electric vehicles and provision should be made as
those living in terraced houses and flats, of which there are many in Ayton are
unable to charge vehicles at their homes.

## Next Meeting

The Next Ayton Community Council meeting will take place on the 1st April 2025
at 7pm in the Community Hall.
