---
title: Minutes for meeting held Tuesday 7 October 2025
type: minutes
special_meeting:
date: 2025-10-07
---

_Held in Ayton Community Hall at 7:00pm._

## Present

- Trevor Smith — *Secretary*
- Paul Ingram — *Treasurer*
- Paul Cliffe
- Toby Foster
- Amanda Wright
- Alison Currie
- Cllr J Anderson

## Members of the Public Present

- Isabelle Kelly
- Roger Postle

_(Both representing the Christmas Lights Group)_

_TS chaired meeting_

## Apologies for Absence

- Alan McFadzean — _Chair_
- Emily Sanderson
- Cllr C Hamilton
- Cllr A Orr

Minutes of the Meeting 2nd September 2025: AW proposed, and PC seconded, and
minutes were unanimously approved.

## Ayton Christmas Lights

IK and RP attended the meeting on behalf of the Christmas lights group. They
asked if the CC would like involvement with this years switch on and it was
felt that we did not have enough time or volunteers to take this forward this
year however we would consider future involvement. IC stated that more lights
had been purchased, and another very successful Just Giving campaign had raised
well over the target of £1000, donated by members of the public as well as
businesses based in the village and the group placed on record their thanks and
gratitude to the community and local businesses for their continued support.
The lights this year will be switched on Sunday 30th September and they would
be put up, along with the traditional Christmas tree Mid November, again with
the support of a small group of volunteers and help by local farmers who provide
lifting platforms so this can be done safely.

## Ayton Show

Having supported the Ayton Show with a live music and Real Ale event it was
widely acknowledged that our event at the Bowling club had been very well
received with members of the public. The CC wished to place on record its thanks
to TS and his wife Louise for giving their time to run the bar at this event
and it was noted how hard they had worked, and all members of the CC were very
grateful. In addition to this the CC would like to thank Ayton and District
bowling club for hosting the event and it was noted that the Bowling Club is
an excellent community partner, and they play a very important role in village
life.

The overall cost of the event was £700 for Bands, £50 Equipment Hire, £200
for a sound Engineer and £12 for food and refreshments giving a total outgoing
of £962. We did however make £95.27 in donations making an overall cost to the
CC of £866.73.

It was agreed that we would like to be involved in next years event and plans
are being made to look at better ways of working between the Gardening Society
and the CC.

## Community Council Consultation

A Place Plan questionnaire was now in place and had been approved by members
of the CC. It was Launched at the Ayton Show with a leaflet giving a QR code
for people to complete. It was agreed a printed version would be distributed
to every house in the village with a deadline of 31st October. The form could
still be completed online, or a paper version could be returned to Ayton Mini
Market where TF would collect responses. The village was divided up between all
members of the CC and it was agreed they would deliver these this week as well
as complete a google docs form with confirmation of which addresses had be done
and when. TF would share the doc with all members of the CC.

## MMWR

Last Month’s report was circulated to members with nothing of relevance to Ayton.

## Planning

No planning applications have been submitted this month and it was noted there
had been none since June of this year.

## Road Closures

Road Closure notices for the A1 and for Greenlaw were noted and it was agreed
that TS would post details of these on the Village Facebook Page and TF would
put on our website.

## Treasurer’s report

Project Account balance stands at £1.96  
Treasurer’s Account balance stands at £629.71

PI Advised that a fund was set up at the end of WWI called the Cow Club, the
aim was that all villages could buy a Cow to support local communities during
these difficult times, allowing communities to start rebuilding after these
events. The money allocated to Ayton was never used and after not being actioned
for over 107 years, the funds have been given back to the village which are
£200, and it was agreed they would be ring fenced for the purchase of a new
defibrillator. It had been suggested that a fund-raising quiz could take place
to help raise additional funds for a defibrillator which was agreed, and a
member of the CC has offered to match money raised from this up to a maximum of
£500 of future plans when they are put forward and our comments on plans would
be sought.

PI noted that we also had some donations to add to the accounts from the Ayton Show.

## Cllr James Anderson Report

Cllr JA reported that a community Consultation was now open on the new
arrangements for a primary school and Early Years Centre and members of the CC
and Public were encouraged to participate.

It was reported that there was still no agreement on a banking hub however a new
Cash Machine had been installed at the Co-Op and work has been undertaken to
ensure this is available 24 hours a day. He noted both our local MP and MSP
continue to take the cause of a banking Hub forward. He was also pleased to see
Jedburgh had now agreed a hub and noted the similar demographics of the area to
Eyemouth.

## Clock Tower Flag

It was reported that the flagpole on top of the clock tower had been repaired,
and we could now supply a flag. After discussions it was agreed that a Saltire
should be supplied and raised. It was suggested that it might be nice to do this
on 30th November (St Andrew’s Day) which is also the day of the Christmas
Lights switch on. Everyone agreed with this and AC and AW would speak to Darren
Hall about arranging this.

## AOB

It was noted that the village phone box had been removed. When questioned why we
were not informed of this decision we were advised by Cllr JA that the decision
was taken when there was no community council. While this is disappointing it is
reported that the phone box was not used, and people generally have access to
mobile telephones now and this is the sign of modern living. It was agreed that
no further action was necessary.

The next Ayton Community Council meeting will take place on the 4th November
2025 at 7pm in the Community Hall.
