---
title: Minutes for meeting held Tuesday 1 July 2025
type: minutes
special_meeting:
date: 2025-07-01
---

_Held in Ayton Community Hall at 7:00pm._

## Present

- Emily Sanderson — _Chaired meeting_
- Paul Ingram — *Treasurer*
- Alison Currie
- Toby Foster
- Amanda Wright
- Cllr C Hamilton

## Apologies for Absence

- Alan McFadzean — _Chair_
- Trevor Smith — *Secretary*
- Darren Hall
- Cllr J Anderson
- Cllr A Orr

## Members of the public present

- Paul Cliffe

Previous minutes could not be approved due to not being circulated.

## Ayton Show

- It has been indicated that Ayton Gardening Group would be keen to link their event on the 6th September with that proposed by the Community Council. All were in general agreement with this idea. PI to check and confirm with the chair of the Gardening Group.
- It was proposed that the bar and music elements of the ACC event be hosted in the bowling club if possible. PI/ TS to approach the bowling club to confirm agreement and discuss arrangements.
- Children’s activities to be located on the Playing Field and fit in with the Gardening Group’s timescales of 12:00 to 16:00
- The Gardening Group will be using the bowling club until 16:00, it is proposed for the ACC event to run from 16:00 to 22:00.
- It was requested that additional beer options be included in the bar to extend the choice available. - To be discussed further. ALL
- Children’s activities: to be invited to donate towards the costs of the event and include:
  - Bouncy Castle and slide
  - Face painting
  - Food van
  - Noon Entertainments Merry Go Round
  - Positions of the above to be agreed with the Gardening Group.
- Music performers being looked into. It is understood there will be a likely cost for the performers. Tentative budget to cover 6 performers/bands £1K

## Road Closure Notices

A1 closures (Road Works) have been completed. No further action required.

## Council Cuts

Cllr Hamilton advised that no decisions have been made on the closure of any specific facilities or services. Consultation ongoing and dates for local meetings in August (Eyemouth) will be advised and need to be communicated to residents via Social media and noticeboards.

## Ayton Place Plan

Questionnaire is complete. The preferred response mechanism is online, however it was accepted that many residents would prefer a hard copy and it was agreed to distribute one set of questions to each household, which would include referral to the online option.

Printing costs to be determined for the questionnaire and the questionnaire will be launched to the community on the 6th September.

## Hemelvaart

The premises have been viewed by the interested party.
Awaiting the outcome of ongoing discussions between the owner and interested party.

## Legoland in Ayton

A request has been received to support a children’s focussed Lego event. The event to be held in the hall and the support request is for ACC to cover the rental cost of the hall.
It was agreed in principle to support this event. PI to determine cost of hall hire.
Once date confirmed ACC to include poster on the village noticeboard and village Facebook page.

## AOB

It was noted that Paul Cliffe had to date not been formally co-opted onto the Community Council. It was proposed that this be proposed at this meeting and ratified at the next.

Rages advised of additional rail services between Newcastle and Edinburgh in August and forthcoming meetings of the Capital Rail Action group in Edinburgh – 16 September, 23 October, 18 November, 16 December.

## Next Meeting

The next Ayton Community Council meeting will take place on 5 August 2025 at 7pm in the Community Hall.

Agenda items to be limited to ratifying Paul Cliffe’s position and the Ayton Show.
