---
title: Minutes for AGM held Tuesday 7th January 2025
type: minutes
special_meeting: AGM
date: 2025-01-07
---

*Held in Ayton Community Hall at 7:00pm.*

## Present

* Alan McFadzean — *Chair*
* Paul Ingram — *Treasurer*
* Alison Currie
* Toby Foster
* Emily Sanderson
* Cllr J Anderson

## Apologies for Absence

* Trevor Smith — *Secretary*
* Darren Hall
* Amanda Wright
* Cllr C Hamilton
* Cllr A Orr

---

The minutes of the previous AGM held on Tuesday 5th December 2023 were approved.
Proposed by AM and seconded by PI as a true and accurate reflection of events.

## Chair's Annual Report

The chair has not been in place long, so the report only covers a few months.

The Christmas market was well attended and well received, and helped raise some
money for the Community Council and the Christmas Lights Committee.

Letter has been sent on behalf of CC to support Berwickshire Anti-litter Group
(BAG). BAG have had media attention, and have managed to get meetings and
commitments from stakeholders and politicians.


## Treasurer's Annual Report

**Covers Financial Year 24/25 to 7 Jan 2025**

### Treasurer's Account

|                     | Income     | Expenditure |
|:--------------------|-----------:|------------:|
| **Opening balance** | **333.28** |             |
| Grant from SBC      |   693.00   |             |
| Donations           |   105.00   |             |
| Bank interest       |     6.77   |             |
| Memberships         |            |     20.00   |
| Remembrance wreath  |            |     39.60   |
| Hall hire           |            |     60.00   |
| Incidental          |            |      4.79   |
| **Closing balance** |            | **1013.66** |

### Projects Account

|                     | Income     | Expenditure |
|:--------------------|-----------:|------------:|
| **Opening balance** | **903.28** |             |
| Bank interest       |     9.85   |             |
| **Closing balance** |            |  **913.13** |

### Combined Totals

Opening balance: £1236.56  
**Closing balance: £1926.79**

## Election of Officers

Current office bearers standing unopposed for their existing seats.

* Alan McFadzean unanimously elected to continue as Chair
* Trevor Smith unanimously elected to continue as Secretary
* Paul Ingram unanimously elected to continue as Treasurer

## New Members

Emily Sanderson to become full member of community council. Proposed by AM, seconded by AC and unanimously approved.

## AOB

–

## Next Meeting

The next Ayton Community Council AGM will take place on 7th April 2026 at 7pm in Ayton Community Hall.

*Meeting closed at 7:20pm.*
