---
title: Minutes for meeting held Tuesday 7th January 2025
type: minutes
special_meeting:
date: 2025-01-07
---

*Held in Ayton Community Hall at 7:20pm.*

## Present

* Alan McFadzean — *Chair*
* Paul Ingram — *Treasurer*
* Alison Currie
* Toby Foster
* Emily Sanderson
* Cllr J Anderson

## Apologies for Absence

* Trevor Smith — *Secretary*
* Darren Hall
* Amanda Wright
* Cllr C Hamilton
* Cllr A Orr

---

The minutes of the previous meeting held on Tuesday 10th December 2024 were
approved. Proposed by AM and seconded by TS as a true and accurate reflection of
events.

## Road Closure Notices

None announced. Current road closure down the bottom of Beanburn is due to a crash.

## Clock Tower Flag

No update as DH could not make meeting.

## Litter on A1

AC reports on progress made by her and Berwickshire Anti-litter Group (BAG):

* Letter sent to SBC Chief Executive on behalf of Community Council.
* BAG have been featured on multiple TV and radio shows.
* Petition to Scottish Parliament to be heard on 5 February.
* Public meeting with Valencia landfill site on 13 February.
* BEAR Scotland has sent out a schedule of grass cutting for 2025 to the 3 relevant Local Authorities and has arranged a series of meetings with them in March, May and September. This will enable litter picking to be done in advance and hopefully ensure coordination.
* Rachael Hamilton MSP has cancelled meeting but will reschedule. Meeting with Fiona Hyslop MSP is proving difficult. May organise meeting with Paul McLellan MSP in collaboration with Dunbar Against Litter.


## Ayton Summer Event

No progress to report. AM to check other event dates in the local area, so we can avoid a clash.

## Treasurer's Report

**Covers Financial Year 24/25 to 7 Jan 2025**

### Treasurer's Account

|                     | Income     | Expenditure |
|:--------------------|-----------:|------------:|
| **Opening balance** | **333.28** |             |
| Grant from SBC      |   693.00   |             |
| Donations           |   105.00   |             |
| Bank interest       |     6.77   |             |
| Memberships         |            |     20.00   |
| Remembrance wreath  |            |     39.60   |
| Hall hire           |            |     60.00   |
| Incidental          |            |      4.79   |
| **Closing balance** |            | **1013.66** |

### Projects Account

|                     | Income     | Expenditure |
|:--------------------|-----------:|------------:|
| **Opening balance** | **903.28** |             |
| Bank interest       |     9.85   |             |
| **Closing balance** |            |  **913.13** |

### Combined Totals

Opening balance: £1236.56  
**Closing balance: £1926.79**


## September MMWR

No report has been issued.

## AOB

### CC Logo

PI worked on a few variations of TF's design. Plan is to work on a few options before running a poll in the village.

### Playground

ES enquired about plans to renovate playground. It was agreed that we should attempt to raise funds in addition to what will be available from SBC/Summerhill. TF will ask resident who secured funding for Ayton Primary School's new playground equipment if they will attend next meeting to share their experience.

## Next Meeting

The next Ayton Community Council Meeting will take place on Wednesday 5th March 2025 at 7pm in Ayton Community Hall.

*Meeting closed at 7:40pm*
