---
title: Minutes for meeting held Tuesday 5 August 2025
type: minutes
special_meeting:
date: 2025-08-05
---

_Held in Ayton Community Hall at 7:00pm._

## Present

- Alan McFadzean — _Chair_
- Trevor Smith — *Secretary*
- Paul Ingram — *Treasurer*
- Paul Cliffe
- Toby Foster
- Amanda Wright

## Apologies for Absence

- Alison Currie
- Darren Hall
- Emily Sanderson
- Cllr J Anderson
- Cllr C Hamilton
- Cllr A Orr

Minutes of the Meeting 1st July: AW proposed, and TF Seconded, and minutes were unanimously approved.

## Co-Option to Council

Paul Cliffe was formally co-opted to the community council with all members unanimously backing this appointment. Chair Alan McFadzean welcomed Paul and thanked him for his efforts so far and for putting himself forward for the role.

## Ayton Show

Having agreed to support the Ayton Gardening society with their annual show it was agreed that an event in the evening would take place, organised by the CC. TS confirmed that the bowling club had agreed to host the event which would run from 5pm until 11pm on Saturday 6th September.

4 Bands would be booked along with a sound engineer who would provide a PA system and this would be organised by PI. It was agreed that £1000 cost would be covered by CC funds.

PC to purchase 2 kegs from the Swannay Brewery at a cost of £115 plus VAT which would be reimbursed from sales of the beer on the night. A price of £3.50 per pint was agreed meaning that if all beer sold the profit would be around £227 which would be split evenly between the CC and the bowling club. Racks and taps would be required to dispense the beer and TS agreed to source these.

TF has agreed to produce promotional posters in both print and digital formats to promote the event. PI to supply details of musicians and timings when they were available.

ES had also arranged U’ve Pulled to attend with their catering van as well as face painting and an owl handler. Other children’s attractions were also being explored.

## Community Council Consultation

A questionnaire was now in place and it was agreed that the Ayton Show would be a good place to launch the consultation. As previously agreed an online version would be created however it was recognised that a physical copy of the forms would be more suitable for some residents. It was agreed that AC would explore the cost of printing the forms ahead of the Ayton Show, with local printers Fantasy Prints and Print Spot.

A stand would be set up in the Bowling Club during the day of the Ayton Show and would be manned by volunteers from the CC.

## Lego Club

PI Reported that we had been approached about hosting a Lego Club in the village Hall. It was agreed that CC would fund the hall hire costs however we still do not have a definitive date for this to start. PI to keep members posted.

## Hemelvaart Bier Café

It was reported that interested parties are continuing negotiations with the owners having gained access and viewed the property. They remain keen to do a deal at the right price and negotiations are on going.

## MMWR

Last month’s report was circulated to members with nothing of relevance to Ayton.

## Road Closures

No Further road closures have been advised.

## Treasurer’s report

Project account balance stands at £918.69  
Treasurer’s account balance stands at £629.71

## AOB

None

## Next Meeting

The Next Ayton Community Council Meeting Will Take place on the 2nd September 2025 at 7pm in the Community Hall.
