---
title: Minutes for meeting held Tuesday 4 November 2025
type: minutes
special_meeting:
date: 2025-11-04
---

_Held in Ayton Community Hall at 7:00pm._

## Present

- Alan McFadzean — _Chair_
- Trevor Smith — *Secretary*
- Paul Ingram — *Treasurer*
- Paul Cliffe
- Toby Foster
- Alison Currie

## Apologies for Absence

- Amanda Wright
- Emily Sanderson
- Cllr J Anderson
- Cllr C Hamilton
- Cllr A Orr

Minutes of the Meeting 7nd October 2025: PI proposed, and PC seconded, and
minutes were unanimously approved.

## Community Council consultation

A Place Plan questionnaire had been distributed to every house in the village
and the closing date for submissions was 31st October. TF had collated all
of the responses with 163 people completing the survey, which we felt was an
excellent response. 107 were completed online using the QR code on the form and
56 paper versions were submitted.

TF agreed to send the results around members for their consideration, and it
was agreed that we would look at the priorities in there at a future meeting
specifically for this purpose. As a general overview, it was noted that
most people liked living here and that most of the responses were positive,
particularly around the open spaces in the village. The negative points seem to
relate to poor public transport links and lack of available affordable housing.
TF was congratulated on an outstanding job in collecting and putting together
this information.

## MMWR

Last month’s report was circulated to members with nothing of relevance to
Ayton.

## Planning

No planning applications have been submitted this month, and it was noted there
had been none since June of this year.

## Road closures

1 road closure notice was received for Duns between 8th and 12th December.

## Treasurer’s report

Project account balance stands at £54.43  
Treasurer’s account balance stands at £456.78

PI advised that we are yet to receive £200 from the Cow Club money however this
was imminent.

## SBC councillors report

Due to a meeting at the high school regarding a consultation to incorporate
the primary school into the existing high school building, no councillors were
present, and no reports were submitted.

## Clock tower flag

It was agreed that a flag would be purchased and that we would look to raise
it on St Andrew’s Day, Sunday 30th November. PI to speak to resident in the
clock tower for access and is happy to raise the flag. It was agreed that the
services of a piper would be sought and whisky provided by the CC for those over
the age of 18 to toast the new Saltire. It was agreed the Christmas lights group
would be approached to see if we could do this when Christmas lights were being
turned on, however if this is not possible then we will look to do something
earlier in the day and TS will publicise this on the village Facebook page.

## AOB

TF advised that he would not be joining the Ayton Gardening Society committee,
however he would be the CC point of contact between the 2 groups.

Sunday 9th November is Remembrance Sunday. CC Chair AM would attend the church
at war memorial at Ayton Kirk at 10:15, where he would lay a wreath on behalf of
the CC.

---

The next Ayton Community Council meeting will take place on the Tuesday 2nd
December 2025 at 7pm in the Community Hall.
