---
title: Minutes for meeting held Tuesday 2 December 2025
type: minutes
special_meeting:
date: 2025-12-02
---

_Held in Ayton Community Hall at 7:00pm._

## Present

- Trevor Smith — *Secretary*
- Alison Currie
- Amanda Wright
- Paul Cliffe

## Members of the Public Present

- Camilla Minter

## Apologies for Absence

- Alan McFadzean — _Chair_
- Paul Ingram — *Treasurer*
- Emily Sanderson
- Toby Foster
- Cllr J Anderson
- Cllr C Hamilton
- Cllr A Orr

Minutes of the Meeting 4th November 2025: AW proposed and PC seconded, and
minutes were unanimously approved.

## Eyemouth School Plans

It was noted that SBC were likely to drop their plans to place a New Primary
School within the current High School. It was suggested that we should continue
to object until this was finalised and it was also noted that funding should
still be ring fenced and not spent else where and that we should continue to
campaign for a new, purpose built school similar to the one in Earlston.

## Community Council Consultation

A Place Plan questionnaire had been distributed to every house in the village,
and we received an excellent response to this. It was agreed by those present
that we now need to take this forward and the next step is likely to be
engagement the wider community. We agreed that in light of a number of members
of the CC not being present we would carry this forward to the January meeting
where further decisions could be made.

## Christmas Lights

The lights have been assembled and a switch on had taken place. The Community
Council agreed, that as usual, this year’s light display and Christmas tree
were exceptional. The Community Council wished to place on record our thanks to
the Christmas Lights Group for their efforts and congratulate them on another
fantastic display.

## MMWR

Last month’s report was circulated to members with nothing of relevance to
Ayton.

## Planning

No planning applications have been submitted this month.

## Road Closures

While TS was now receiving regular notifications from SBC, he reported that
they were often at short notice and this month none had related to Ayton or
surrounding areas. It was agreed that he would post details of future road
closures of interest to Ayton residents on the village Facebook page and
forwarded to TF for note on our website.

## Treasurer’s report

Project account balance stands at £54.43  
Treasurer’s account balance stands at £456.78

PI advised that we are yet to receive £200 from the Cow Club money however this was imminent.

## SBC Councillors Report

All SBC councillors submitted apologies and as such no reports were delivered.

## Clock Tower Flag

It was reported that a flag had now been raised above the clock tower and
residents were largely very happy with this. Thanks were offered to all
involved, especially the young piper who did a magnificent job.

## AOB

Camilla Minter attended the meeting seeking financial support from the community
council to pay a professional gardener to look after the 2 flower beds outside
of the church, which she had been involved in maintaining for many years. The
annual cost was likely to be £132 per year. It was widely felt that, while she
had done an excellent job it would be difficult for the council to support this
without having to then pay to maintain many other displays around the village.
After a number of suggestions were made, it was agreed that individuals or
businesses might be prepared to sponsor specific beds. It was agreed that this
was a good idea and TS suggested a business that might be prepared to sponsor
those outside the church and this was later agreed.

It was reported that the street lighting in Old Town was off and have been for
2 weeks now. TS agreed to contact SBC in an effort to have them turned back on
or seek further information as to why they are off and when they will be turned
back on.

It was noted that Haylodge Park had received funding for a number of shelters
that could be used for local youths to congregate. PI had previously suggested
this might work in Ayton. Note of this success was noted and it was suggested
that PI may wish to look at this application and plan and see if there were
lessons, we could take forward for Ayton.

---

The next Ayton Community Council meeting will take place on the Tuesday 6th
January 2026 at 7pm in the Community Hall.
