---
title: Minutes for meeting held Tuesday 6 January 2026
type: minutes
special_meeting:
date: 2026-01-06
---

_Held in Ayton Community Hall at 7:00pm._

## Present

- Alam McFazdean—_Chair_
- Trevor Smith—_Secretary_
- Paul Ingram—_Treasurer_
- Amanda Wright
- Paul Cliffe
- Toby Foster
- Councillor Carol Hamilton

## Apologies for Absence

- Emily Sanderson
- Alison Currie
- Councillor James Anderson
- Councillor Aileen Orr

---

Minutes of the meeting held 2 December 2025: AW proposed and PI seconded, and
minutes were unanimously approved.

## Community Council Consultation / Place Plan

Members noted that the Place Plan questionnaire had been distributed to all
households in the village and that an excellent response had been received.

It was agreed that this work should now progress. A subgroup consisting of Toby
Foster, Paul Cliffe, and Alison Currie will meet to discuss next steps and how
the process should be taken forward.

Trevor Smith shared his experience of similar work undertaken in another council
area. This was noted by members and will be considered alongside options for
collating and feeding back information.

It was further agreed that priorities should be identified, with a focus on the
most significant issues. Early indications suggest that the village play park is
likely to be a key priority.

Members noted that funding for improvements is expected within the 2026/27
budget. It was agreed that Scottish Borders Council should be contacted in
advance. Councillor Hamilton advised that Carol Cooke should be contacted in
the first instance. Trevor Smith agreed to undertake this, with the aim of
clarifying next steps and any preparatory work required from the Community
Council ahead of any works taking place.

## MMWR

The December report has not yet been received. It will be circulated to members
once available.

## Planning

No planning applications were submitted during this period.

## Road Closures

Members were advised that a road closure will be in place in Reston for two days
in the coming week. Trevor Smith noted that he had not previously been made
aware of this. Councillor Hamilton agreed to forward the relevant details so
that the information can be shared via the village Facebook page.

## Treasurer’s Report

Account Balances:

Project Account: £54.43  
Treasurer’s Account: £366.83

Paul Ingram advised that £200 from Cow Club funds has not yet been received but
is expected imminently.

Expenditure noted:

- £121.72 – Place Plan printing
- £42.90 – Remembrance Sunday wreath
- £10.00 – RAGES membership fee
- £89.95 – Clock Tower flag

## Electric Vehicle Charging

Members considered options for electric vehicle charging within the village,
noting that there are currently no charging points.

Councillor Hamilton confirmed that Scottish Borders Council policy is to
encourage private companies to install charging infrastructure on a commercial
basis.

It was noted that a number of properties, including those in Old Town and on
the High Street, do not have access to private driveways. As such, installation
of chargers would require cables to cross public footpaths. Members were
advised that this may be possible through the installation of a gully across
the pavement or cable cover; however, this would require planning permission on
a case-by-case basis and would be at the cost of the individual applicant(s).
Councillor Hamilton will request an update on SBC policy and plans.

## SBC Councillors’ Report

All SBC Councillors submitted apologies and, as a result, no reports were presented.

## Any Other Business

Toby Foster advised that he had been approached regarding potential involvement
in this year’s village show. It was agreed that initial discussions should
take place, with the next meeting providing an opportunity to consider this
further once views have been sought from those typically involved in organising
the event, which is usually held in September.

It was also agreed that confirmation of dates would be required in order to
better understand member and volunteer availability.

## Date of Next Meeting

The next meeting of Ayton Community Council will take place on Tuesday 3
February 2026 at 7:00pm in the Community Hall.
