---
title: Minutes for meeting held Tuesday 5 May 2026
type: minutes
special_meeting:
date: 2026-05-05
---

_Held in Ayton Community Hall at 7:00pm._

## Present

- Alan McFadzean—_Chair_
- Trevor Smith—_Secretary_
- Paul Ingram—_Treasurer_
- Amanda Wright
- Paul Cliffe
- Toby Foster
- Cllr Carol Hamilton

## Apologies for Absence

- Alison Currie
- Cllr James Anderson
- Cllr Aileen Orr

---

## 1. Minutes of Previous Meeting

Two change was suggested by PI stating that the figures in the previous meeting
for accounts was inaccurate. These were actioned by TS.

## 2. Ayton Castle

It has been agreed that a meeting will take place in Ayton Church on Thursday
14th May with both the production company and Alan Carr regarding his plans for
the castle following his purchase and the impact on the village of filming. It
was agreed that the meeting should be for village residents only and that
advertising of this would be limited to village notice boards and word of
mouth. If necessary a final day reminder could be posted to social media
however Community Council would monitor this and decide ahead of the meeting.

## 3. Community Council Consultation / Place Plan

As agreed at the AGM we decided to discuss the plans for the village Play Park.
TS confirmed that Carol Cook from SBC had not replied to his request for
information and Cllr CH had agreed to chase this up with her as to the current
situation, plans for the future and how we could start the planning for such an
upgrade which we understand is due in this financial year.

## 4. Hemelvarrt Bier Café.

The current owners of the Hemelvaart Bier Café have confirmed that the current
tenants will be leaving in the next 2 months as per the terms of their lease.
At this point their plan is to put the property on the market and they hope
that it can continue to be operated as a public house. PC has been looking into
options for a community purchase of the property and continues to explore this
as an option with the Community Council are interested to hear more about and
he will report back further at the next meeting.

## 5. MMWR

The April report has been circulated to all members and there were no items of
interest to Ayton.

## 6. Planning

No Planning applications were received this month ahead of the meeting.

## 7. Road Closures

Members were advised that no road closures in Ayton or surrounding areas had be
received.

## 8. Treasurer’s Report

Account Balances:

Project Account: £368.13  
Treasurer’s Account: £55.65

## 9. SBC Councillors’ Report

Cllr CH reported that the results of the Eyemouth Primary School consultation
was due later this month and that we may be interested in this. She reported
that SBC had convened a Fuel action group, following the recent rises in the
cost of heating fuel and would advise further after the group had met with
potential actions and information. There are a number of meetings regarding the
Tour De France coming through the borders and we were advised of these meetings
however there is unlikely to be any impact on Ayton, however volunteers were
being sought and meetings in the west of the borders would take place on 18th
and 19th of May.

## 10. Date of Next Meeting

The next meeting of Ayton Community Council will take place on Tuesday 2nd June
2026 at 7.00 pm in the Community Hall.
