---
title: Minutes for meeting held Tuesday 3 February 2026
type: minutes
special_meeting:
date: 2026-02-03
---

_Held in Ayton Community Hall at 7:00pm. Chaired by Trevor Smith._

## Present

- Trevor Smith—_Secretary_
- Paul Cliffe
- Toby Foster
- Alison Currie

## Apologies for Absence

- Alan McFadzean—_Chair_
- Emily Sanderson
- Paul Ingram—_Treasurer_
- Amanda Wright
- Cllr James Anderson
- Cllr Aileen Orr
- Cllr Carol Hamilton

---

Minutes of the meeting held 3 January 2025: TF proposed and PC seconded, and
minutes were unanimously approved.

## AGM

It was noted that we were required to hold an AGM of the Community Council by
April 2026 and that this will be the final year of the current council. All
members present noted that they were unavailable for an AGM on our regular date,
and it was noted that this would be scheduled for during the Easter Break and
that others not in attendance, may also be unavailable. It was agreed that in
light of this we would hold the AGM before our next meeting on 3rd March. TS to
add a notice of this to Facebook and TF to add a notice on the village notice
board and our website.

## Community Council Consultation / Place Plan

Members noted that the Place Plan questionnaire had been distributed to all
households in the village and that an excellent response had been received.

After it was agreed that this work should now progress. A subgroup consisting of
Toby Foster, Paul Cliffe, and Alison Currie had met to discuss next steps and
how the process should be taken forward.

It was agreed that we would pick our priorities at the AGM for the year ahead
in line with the results of the survey and we would look to schedule a single,
different item at every future meeting to discuss what action we would take and
how each if the matters could be progressed. We also agreed that the item up for
discussion ahead of the meetings would be shared with the public and interested
parties so members of the community and stakeholders could be involved in
discussions. It was also agreed that a breakdown of the survey results would
be shared to our website and hopefully to the village Facebook page with the
agreement of the administrators. TS confirmed that as an Admin of the page he
could do this but would advise other admins as a matter of courtesy.

## Village Facebook Page

PC asked if it was possible to create a community Council Facebook page as he
felt that the current village page was not effective enough and it was difficult
for individuals to post on the page. After much discussion it was agreed that
TS would approach Kenny Combe, main administrator of the page to see if the
processes and access could be changed slightly to make it more user friendly.

## Village Show September 2026

TF advised that after further discussions with organisers of the village show
they would prefer not to have significant Community Council involvement on the
day this year. Discussions were held about possibly hosting our own event and
research would be carried out and further discussions held at a future meeting.

## MMWR

The December report has been circulated to all members and there were no items
of interest to Ayton.

## Planning

A planning application was noted for a residential house on the High Street to
remove 2 trees that were causing damage to the property. It was unanimously
agreed to support this application.

## Road Closures

Members were advised that no road closures in Ayton or surrounding areas had be
received.

## Treasurer’s Report

Account Balances:

Project Account: £54.43  
Treasurer’s Account: £366.83

Paul Ingram advised that £200 from Cow Club funds has not yet been received but
is expected imminently.

## SBC Councillors’ Report

All SBC Councillors submitted apologies and, as a result, no reports were
presented.

## Date of Next Meeting

The next meeting of Ayton Community Council will take place on Tuesday 3 March
2026 at 7.30 pm in the Community Hall, immediately after the AGM.
